# Game Saving Example
This is a slightly more advanced example of saving and loading files to inspire you in your projects.

# How to Test:
Start the game and move the cube with the W, A, S and D keys and jump with the space bar. When you have a comfortable position, click the save button so that it serializes this information into a file on the disk. From then on, whenever you want to return to that position, just click the load button.

# How Does It Work?
The implementation of these two Save and Load features is in the callback of the two save and load buttons, respectively.

There are countless ways to make a project saving system and in this project you will find a simple solution as a suggestion.

What you can see here is that we saved this file in the appropriate directory of the operating system. Because if you save anywhere or together with your project, depending on where you publish the game (like on Steam), this save will be lost when your player updates the game. So that's why it's important to respect the appropriate save directory for each operating system. This is done for you automatically through a Cave function (`cave.getSystemDataPath(...)`).

# Example Details
Explaining the example system in a few words, we take the **Player** Entity and its **Transform** to get the position and rotation in Euler. Then we create a text file and in its first line we put the position x, y, z, separated by commas. In the second line, the rotation in Euler x, y, z, also separated by commas. This way, when loading this text file back, just read the lines and divide them by the comma to get again the position x, y, z and rotation x, y, z respectively. Setting them again to the player's Transform.

You can expand this system or even make it more complex, supporting multiple formats and data, encryption, binary files, etc. But those are implementation details specific to your game. :)