# Character "Proto"
This is a character made for "Prototypes" (abbreviated "Proto"), created by the artist **"Luendey Aguiar"** who kindly allowed us to use the model in Cave Engine. The animations that you will find in the "Animations" folder were made through the website [mixamo.com](https://www.mixamo.com/#/).

--------

# About the Proto Material:
**The Proto Material** ("Proto Mat") has an interesting observation: in addition to the common textures, it also has an **"Emission"** texture, which makes some parts of the surface glow as if they were emitting light.

# About the 3D Mesh:
If you click and drag the **"Proto Mesh"** mesh into the scene (in the 3D View), Cave will instantiate a new Entity with a **Mesh Component** (which will use the Proto mesh and material) and also an **Animation Component** (which will use the Armature and the "p-idle" animation by default).

These settings for which assets Cave uses to instantiate each mesh are only to speed up your work and can be changed at any time in the "Hints" tab of each Mesh (click once on the Mesh in the Asset Browser to see its properties in the Properties panel). Remember that changing the "Hints" of a Mesh **does not** change meshes that have already been instantiated because, again, they are only used to speed up your work when you drag a new Mesh into the 3D view and want it to be added.

# About the Animations:
**The Proto Animations** that you can find in the "Animations" subfolder were named strategically and a little differently from the other files. They all start with the prefix **"p-"**, which refers to the initial of the character's name (Proto) and this was done to make it easier to identify each animation. **This is not a rule** and you can name them however you want, but it certainly helps with organization when you are working with larger projects and with multiple different characters. This way you don't run the risk of accidentally executing an animation for another character.

Animations in the Cave are usually **executed via Python, through the Asset name**. So it is good to name them strategically, thinking about how you will call them via code.

# Previewing Animations:
To Preview an Animation in the Cave you need to select an Entity in the 3D View that you want to use to execute such Animation. This Entity needs to have the correct Mesh and Armature for the preview to work.

<div class="green">
In the Proto example, you can drag the "Proto Mesh" into your scene if you want to test it.

</div>
Once you have the correct Entity selected, simply double-click on the desired Animation (in the Asset Browser) and Cave will set it as the current Animation of the Animation Component automatically. Alternatively, you can manually expand the Entity's Animation Component (in the Properties tab) and change the current Animation via the Dropdown menu.

# Animation Callbacks
If you play the demo in Third Person, you will see that the character emits footstep sounds as he walks. These sounds are executed via Python by the animation itself ("p-walk" and "p-run") thanks to Animation Callbacks. If you select these animations and go to the "Callbacks" sub-tab, you will see that each one has two frame callbacks (one per step) that execute a Python script. This script plays a sound, sets 3D sound values ​​and also sets a random pitch for each execution.

You can do MUCH more with Animation Callbacks, this is just an example!