# First Person Demo
In this folder you will find the demo for **Creating First Person Games with Cave Engine**. In the **First Person** scene you can start the game and see everything we have implemented here and inside the First Person code file (Python) you will also see the script containing all the character's movements, sounds, animations, shooting, etc.

Another interesting thing you will notice is that we have an **Entity Template** called **"Bullet Hole"** in this folder, which serves, as the name suggests, so that you can add it to the scene and simulate a bullet hole in solid surfaces. This template also has a particle with debris animations for when the object is added.

You will find comments in the code with implementation details, but I will also detail each part below, to make it easier to understand. The code is divided as follows:

# Basic Movement
Functions: `movement(self)` and `mouselook(self)`

To move a character in first person, you need to pay attention to two things:

**The first is the movement through the world** using the W, A, S and D keys, Shift to run and Space to jump. This is done inside the "movement" function and the implementation is very simple and very similar to the implementation of the third person example as well.

**The second thing** that you need to pay attention to is that **the camera needs to move with the movement of the mouse**. This is done in the "mouseLook" function.

If you notice, this function has two interesting properties that deserve our attention, especially if this is your first time using an engine or implementing a system like this. The first observation is that we set **"events.setRelativeMouse(...)**" to True. This is necessary for the operating system to interpret the movements that the player makes with the mouse, not to actually move the mouse cursor, but to store this "offset" so that we can use it to move both the camera and the character.

And speaking of moving, here is a very important detail:

When you move the mouse vertically, from top to bottom or vice versa, we rotate the camera itself around its lateral axis, which we know as Pitch. But, in the case of horizontal movement of the mouse, from left to right or vice versa, **we do not rotate the camera but rather the player itself** on its Y axis, which we also know as Yaw.

Finally, in the "mouseLook" function, you will find the second interesting property that I mentioned: **a code that limits the rotation of the camera**. This is necessary to prevent the player from turning too much down or up looking back, upside down.

# Shooting and Bullet Hole
Function: `shoot(self)`

In the **"shoot"** function, you will find all the logic, both to detect when the player should shoot, and to apply the sound, execute the muzzle flash effect, and add the bullet hole in the ground when the projectile collides with it.

The first thing you can notice is that the player shoots with the left mouse button, but if you hold the button, he will continue shooting respecting the minimum time. This is because we created what we call **"SceneTimer"** in Cave, which is a timer that uses the time spent in the scene while it is not paused. So the shot is only fired once this timer has exceeded a minimum amount of time between one shot and another.

**For the sound and muzzle effects**, it's pretty simple: We simply play a sound through the **"cave.playSound"** API, which you're probably already familiar with, and we also create a new entity in the scene, copying the existing "Muzzle" (which is visible on the player's gun) and enabling its visibility. All the muzzle and flash effects that you see when the player shoots are in this entity.

**For the bullet hole**, we use a Raycast to cast a ray from the camera and going in the direction it's pointing to see if that ray collided with something. The ray itself simulates the trajectory of the bullet. If it collided with something, then we can get the position and normal of that collision and add the Bullet Hole, based on its template entity, which we've already discussed here. Otherwise, the player probably shot the bullet into the sky or air, and we don't add anything.

# Animations and Footstep Sounds
Function: `animateAndSounds(self)`

Finally, we have the **"animateAndSounds"** function, which takes care of the animation of the player's hands and weapon, as well as the footstep sounds. Since this is a simple example, we don't have multiple animations, so this function ends up being quite easy to understand.

All we do here is take the animation (from Idle) that is already being executed by the **AnimationComponent** and change the speed at which this animation is executed by the engine according to the player's movement:
* If the player is stationary, it executes the animation at normal speed.
If the player is walking, it plays much faster, and,
* If the player is running, even faster.

This gives the illusion that there are different animations and the player is, in fact, walking. A very similar logic is applied to the footstep sounds. If the player is standing still or in the air, he does not play any sound, but if he is walking, every X seconds a footstep sound is emitted. This interval between sounds is shorter if the player is running.

# Extra: Hands Do Not Cast Shadows!

One last note about this demo is that you will notice that the player's hands and weapon do not cast shadows on the ground. This is done very simply through the Cave Engine's material and sun masks. I went into more detail about this in the **READ ME** file, which is in the Common/AK74 folder.