# Cave Demo Project
Welcome to the Cave Engine main features Demo Project.

Here you will find a variety of mechanics, systems, uses and applications for you to learn and apply in your games. Each project here is not intended to be a "complete game" or even an "interesting game", but rather to demonstrate the elements mentioned by them.

I recommend that you make a "backup" (copy) of this project on your computer, so that you can feel free to modify and break everything during your exploration, without worrying about having to undo everything to "go back to normal" later. This way it is easy to restore the original project whenever you find it necessary.

# Exploration Tips
You will notice that in almost all folders of this project there is an asset called **"READ ME"**, just like this one. Whenever you access a directory for the first time and this file is present, I recommend that you read its contents first and then navigate through the folders and assets in that directory. This will certainly help you to better understand what is going on and have an easier time understanding.

I would suggest that you explore the files in the following order:

* Start by browsing through the folders to get an "overview" of this project:

    * In the **Common** folder you will find all the "common" assets that this project uses and shares with each other.

    * In the **Demos** folder you will find several subfolders with demonstrations of specific mechanics. In each of these, you will probably find a **Scene** that you can open and start the game to test.

    * In the **Templates** folder you will find some more complex Entity Templates that can/are used between several different demo scenes. If this is your first time with Cave and this Demo project, save this folder for last.

* Then play the scenes in the **Demos** folder. A good tip is that if you find the "Main Menu" scene, it will have links to most of the others, so it can be a good way to get your bearings and see everything.