# Particle Examples
Welcome to the Cave Engine **Particles** demo. Here you will see some scenes with different applications for you to use as a base and learn how the engine's particle system works.

# How Do Particles Work?
This system is possible through a component called **Particle Component**, which inherits from **Mesh Component** and adds the possibility of instantiating several units of a single mesh and material at the same time, following specific logic and even adding movement and predetermined behaviors to each of these instances. That is why every time you open the particle component, you will see that the first tab that appears will be called **Instance** and in it you will have the option to control the visibility of the particle and, **just like the Mesh Component**, specify a **tint** to color each instance and also a mesh and a material.

An interesting curiosity about Cave's particle system is that since it inherits from the Mesh Component itself, **if you want to create particles animated by an ARMATURE**, you just need to add an **Animation Component** to the same entity as these particles and it will work as expected in each instance. **You will be able to see this in the third scene of particle examples**.

Continuing the explanation of the particle system, the second tab you will see inside the component is called **Spawn Settings**, which is for you to control where or the region and initial condition of each particle that will be spawned in your world. There you can define the amount of particles you want to be present, the respawn time window, that is, for how long that particle emitter (your Particle Component) will emit new particles and also the spawn region and the initial scale and rotation of each particle. This **Spawn region** can be either a pre-defined area through a box or a 3D mesh.

You'll see that in the second particle example in this demo, we spawned particles all over the surface of a vehicle. Spawning particles all over the surface of a 3D mesh can be very useful and free up your creativity to do a lot of interesting things.

Finally, the particle component has a last tab called **Particle Life**, which is for you to control the particle's life. The first thing that's important is that you can **set the particle to be dynamic or not**.

* **If it's dynamic**, there will be a higher computational cost because every frame the engine will update its position and other information related to it. This is ideal if you want the particles to move.

* **But for stationary particles, which don't move**, you can disable this option to optimize your project.

The second value you'll see is Use Parenting. If this is enabled, if you move the entity that has the Particle Component, the particles emitted by it will move along with that entity. Otherwise, they won't move. An interesting and practical example would be the chimney of a train or steam train. You want the chimney to emit smoke particles, but you don't want these particles to be related to the train itself. In other words: when the train moves, they will stay behind.

Next, you have a very important piece of information about each particle, which is the **Life**: the life of each one of them! If you set Life to zero, the particles will last forever. But if you set some other value, they will only exist during that time window.

Finally, you can set the gravity, linear and angular velocity and the color of each particle during its life. Remember that the color will only change if the particle's life is greater than zero.

<div class="green">
Below, you will see a description of what each scene wants to show you:
</div>

-------

# 01 - Particles
The first example, in the Particles scene, serves to give you a brief introduction to a random spawn of particles and the basic movement of them.

You will see that the particle emitter, which is the Particle Component of this scene, will always spawn small cubes in random positions and rotations across the surface of a plane, and this small cube will be levitated by gravity as if it were smoke. It also has a random rotation and a curve in the tint so that it becomes transparent over time. Note that this transparency is only possible because it uses a material that has transparency enabled.

# 02 - Mesh Surface
The second example shows two interesting things:

The first of them, as we have already mentioned here, is that **the vehicle has several white dots spread across its surface**. These dots are static particles that we spawned exactly according to the vehicle's mesh. It serves only to exemplify this engine feature.

The second interesting observation is that, for demonstration purposes, we also created an emitter of particles on the ground that emits static grass particles to give the scene a really cool look.

# 03 - Animated Particles (with Armatures)
The next example shows how the particle system can be used in conjunction with the **Animation Component** to make the meshes of each particle instance move through a skeleton and animation. Each particle instance does not have a unique animation instance, that is, they all execute exactly the same animation and the same frame at the same time, since the goal of the particle system is to be fast and efficient, so this is a necessary optimization. If you want individual control, then the particle system may not be the best option for you, but if you just want to simulate a crowd or something similar in your game, it can be an excellent choice.

# 04 - VFX
In the next example, **you will not see anything happening in the 3D View by default**, but if you start the game, **you will see several small explosions happening on the ground**. This system works very similarly to the way we add bullet holes in the first person game example, that is, we have an **Entity Template** for these explosions and from time to time we randomly add it to the scene.