# Graphical Interface Demonstrations
Here you will find a good example of how you can create simple and/or advanced menus and User Interface (GUI) systems using Cave's **UI Element Component**.

All 2D graphical interfaces in Cave are created using this single component called UI Element Component. So it is very important that you understand how it works, and in this documentation section I will explain exactly the general overview so that you can understand and create your own interface elements.

# 1 - Transform
When you create a UI Element, the first tab you will see is the **Transform** tab. In it you will find three useful pieces of information:
* The position,
* The scale,
* And the layer of the interface element.

Starting with the simplest, which is the last one, the **layer** will basically influence the order in which several interface elements are drawn. So if you have two elements, one on top of the other, the layer with the highest number will be drawn in front, and so on. If both have the same layer, the order will be potentially random. The exception to this rule is in the case of two elements being children of different parents, since the layer is always relative only between "siblings".

**Moving on to position and scale**, these two values ​​are represented via Python and internally through a class called **cave.UIVector**, which is a little different from the normal Cave vector. The main difference of this class is that it has what we call **anchoring**, which is for you to anchor a position or scale to a certain region and also options to define relative and absolute values ​​for the X and Y axes, or width and height, respectively.

**When you define relative values**, which can be visualized in the interface through a **locked PADLOCK**, you will always use percentages, from 0 to 100% in the interface, or from 0.0 to 1.0 in the Python code. **This percentage is relative to the parent of the UIElement**. In other words, if you have an entity with the UIElement and as a child of this entity you have other entities with the UIElement, the relative scale position of this **child UIElement will be in relation to the parent and so on**. If a UIElement does not have a parent, it will consider the screen as a whole.

**When you define absolute values**, which can be seen through the **unlocked LOCK**, the values ​​will be represented in pixels (note that this will no longer respect different resolutions, etc.).

Finally, you have the **interface element anchoring** options:

As for the position, you can individually anchor the X and Y axes to the center of the screen, left side, right side, top and bottom, individually. This anchoring will determine from which point on the screen or on the parent element, if the UIElement is parented to the UIElement, the engine will count this position. Something very similar can be said for the scaling of interface elements, where you can anchor the width and height to grow to the left, right, top, bottom or center.

<div class="green">
I recommend that you play around with these values ​​a bit to get familiar with them.
</div>

# 2 - Behaviour
Next, we have the **Behaviour** tab, which will define how the UI Element behaves in different situations, such as when the mouse is over it, when the user clicks on it, etc. This will also dictate the appearance of this interface element.

In this tab, you will see that the engine will show you a preview of how your UI Element is looking.

You can choose a **Style Override**, which is an Asset that you create in the Asset Browser, of the **UI Style** type, to create a standard interface style that you can share between multiple UI Elements. This is very useful, because it allows you to create a single behavior recipe for buttons, etc. and share it across all interface elements throughout your game, maintaining good consistency.

But if you don't want to, you can leave this Style Override empty and manually define the base color, through an image or a tint, the Alpha (transparency), or even blur the background of the screen, with the options that you will find.

By default, Cave's interface elements do not have any custom behavior when the user hovers over or clicks on them. To enable these behaviors, you need to check the options that appear at the top of the Behavior tab, respectively **Allow Hover** and **Allow Click**.

<div class="red">
Note: Note that you will not see the Allow Click option unless you check Allow Hover, because in order for the user to be able to click on an interface element, they must first be able to hover over it. </div>

When you activate these options, you will see that new tabs will appear below for you to customize:
* The **When Hovered** tab will dictate the behavior of the interface element when the mouse is over it,
* And the **When Clicked** tab will dictate the behavior when the user clicks on the interface element.

In addition to options for customizing the appearance of the interface element, in these tabs you will also find two fields in each of them for you to add custom Python code. These fields are called when the mouse starts to hover over an interface element, and also when the mouse stops hovering over it, and the same thing for Click: when the user presses the button, and also when the user releases the button.

Typically, in more responsive interfaces, we add the logic when the user releases the button, and not when they press it. It is important to take this into account, and you can test this in other programs. But the final choice is yours, Cave will only give you the tools to do it.

# 3 - Text
Finally, you will find a last tab called **Text**, which as the name suggests, allows you to add text to an interface element.

The first option in this tab is Content, which will allow you to write the text you want to add. But note that it won’t appear unless you set a **Font Source**, which is the font that Cave will use to render text on the screen.

By default, all projects in Cave include a starting font to get you started with your designs. So you can select that font to test your UI element. Below that, you’ll see a variety of options for defining the behavior of your text, such as color, scale, horizontal scale, character spacing, line height, alignment, and text anchoring.