# Vehicle Demo
This is Cave Engine's vehicle demo project. Here you will find a scene called Vehicle, where you can start and test, and also play with the values ​​and properties related to the vehicle.

# How Vehicle Physics Works in Cave
Cave has a vehicle physics component, called **Vehicle Component**, which needs to be added to an entity that also has a **Rigid Body Component**. This Rigidbody needs to be **dynamic** and it is what will define the collision shape of the vehicle. The two components will work together! In the Vehicle Component you will find options to adjust the steering (wheel rotation) and also the engine forces.

Finally, to properly configure the vehicle, **you need to create wheels for it** and this must be done by adding a **child entity to the vehicle**, which has the **Wheel Component** component. This wheel has some important properties:
* **It cannot have a Rigidbody**, because the physics are entirely calculated by the components I mentioned earlier.

* **The scale of this wheel should always be 1**. To set a different radius for the wheel, you must adjust the Wheel Radius option within the Wheel component. If you want to change the size at which the wheel is rendered in the game, then it is recommended that instead of adding the **Mesh Component** to the wheel entity itself, you create a child entity for the wheel and then add the Mesh Component, so that this child Entity serves only for visual effects. This way you can customize the scale, rotation and other attributes.
* **The Rotation should always be Zero**. Like the Scale, the rotation of the wheel is managed by the **Wheel Component**, so you should not change this value in the transform of the wheel itself. If you need to adjust the rotation for visual purposes, follow the tip from the previous topic and create a Child Entity.

In the Wheel Component you will also find numerous controls for the **Suspension** and **Behavior** of each individual wheel, such as whether each one turns with the car's steering or has brakes. These values ​​can also be changed in real time via Python.

# Controlling the Vehicle
When accessing the Vehicle Component physics via Python, you will have a series of methods with specific functionalities, such as **accelerate, brake, reverse**, and methods to turn the car's wheels. The name of each method is self-explanatory, however, it is important to be careful with some factors!

**The first factor** is that you must use Accelerate, Reverse and Idle to control the movement of the vehicle, so that, whenever you intend to accelerate or reverse, you must call the appropriate methods, but you must also call the **Idle** method so that the vehicle enters neutral, in case you want to simulate that the accelerator pedal is no longer pressed and no gear is engaged. Cave does not simulate gears for you, as it is an implementation detail specific to each game.

**To turn the wheels**, you must always remember to call the **"turnStraight"** method since you no longer want to keep them turned in any direction. If you call one of the methods to turn the wheels (turnLeft, turnRight) and do not turn them straight again with turnStraight, the wheels will remain turned.

<div class="green">
In the example code that you will find inside the Vehicle script, you will see all this in practice and it may make more sense and help in understanding.

</div>

# More Realistic Controls
Another extremely important observation if you want to make more realistic vehicle physics is that in real life, none of these movements such as acceleration, reverse or even turning the wheel are discrete. In other words: **these movements are not binary!** In real life, it always takes time for the driver to turn the steering wheel completely to the left or right, and also to accelerate on the accelerator pedal all the way and even release this pedal.

In a virtual environment, such as a video game, it is very common for the developer to make these movements in a binary way, without considering the time taken to perform each action. This will inevitably generate unrealistic controls of the vehicle's physics, which is commonly perceived as "bad physics".

Cave tries to help you with this smoothing with some interesting resources. For example, in the vehicle component, you will find a **Steering** section, where you can define the maximum rotation angle of the front wheels and also the **increment** that this wheel will undergo frame by frame while you are turning it. Smaller increments make the wheel turn slower and larger increments make it faster.

In a more advanced vehicle logic, you can program to change this increment in real time according to the vehicle's speed. We did not do this in the example of this project, but it is a good tip.

The same thing happens with acceleration: You will notice that the accelerate, reverse and other methods will receive an optional parameter called **scale**, which will basically multiply the force applied to the engine at that moment, allowing you to have a smoother control of the vehicle's acceleration. In this project's example, you will find a simple implementation of a smoothed force.

# Car Sound
There are several techniques, simple and advanced, to properly sound a vehicle in a game. In this example project, we explore one of the simplest, yet decent, techniques to do this.

We take a virtual sound of a car engine running in neutral (called "Idling" or "idle") and play it with an initial volume and pitch. After that, every frame we change the pitch of this sound according to the rotation speed that we infer that the engine is at. You can do this calculation in an advanced way, or simply, taking artistic liberties to make the sound more pleasant.

# Collision Particles
You will see in the example of this project that when the vehicle hits a wall or rolls over, a damage sound followed by spark particles will be emitted at the collision site. The example shows a simple, yet convincing, way to achieve this effect. In the code, you will find the **"damageControl"** method that is responsible for this logic. In it, you will see that it takes all the collisions that the car's Rigid Body had in the frame and tries to add the spark particle and the sound at the site of each of these collisions.

Note, however, that the code takes some measures to not add these particles in all the places where the vehicle collided, since there may be dozens or even hundreds of collision sites every frame, due to the way physics works in the Engine. So it is necessary to create some kind of heuristic to select which places and in which situations we display the effect. In the code, you will see a very simple rule for this, which uses as a base the distance of the current collision and the last collision where the effect was added.