# Assets for First-Person Games
In this folder you will find an adapted version [of this asset (OpenGameArt)](https://opengameart.org/content/realistic-ak-74-full-rigged-with-ik) for first-person games. Some changes were necessary for it to work properly in our project. In addition, I also purposely simplified the weapon mesh, so that it is easier to handle here, for teaching purposes.

# Adaptations to the Hand Mesh
To use skeleton-animated meshes in the Cave, **this mesh must have only ONE material**. If it has more than one, you will see unexpected results. This asset had three materials, so I opened it in Blender, created a copy of the arms to make a new UV mapping and **"Bake" the Textures** for a new single image. I also did the same for the Normal Map and Specular images of the model.

# Note the Materials!
One cool thing to note is that the **"Visibility Mask"** of the two materials in this model looks different from the others. To see it, select one of the Materials and go to the "Settings" sub-tab. You'll see this mask and notice that only **Bit 7** is activated. This will be useful in the **First Person** scene so that we can configure the scene so that **the sun doesn't cast shadows from the weapon or the hand**! Otherwise, they'll appear "flying" in the shadow of the scene.

By default, both the scene camera and the sun shadows only render materials that have some of the bits 0 through 7 activated. But you can change these values. In the first person game scene we mentioned, you'll see that the sun doesn't render Bit 7, only Bits 0 through 6. So it will ignore any object that has our two "special materials", including the player's hands and weapon. :)