# Game Pause System
This is an example of how to make a **fully functional** and reusable Pause Menu, with options for:
* **Continue Game**: Continues the current Scene (which is paused)
* **Restart**: Restarts the current Scene
* **Back to Menu**: Returns to the main menu, changing scenes.
* **Exit Game**: Ends the simulation.

<div class="green">
To pause the game, **just press ESC**.
</div>

# Using a Template:
Note that this Pause menu was also created in the form of an **Entity Template**, so that the other examples in this project _(First Person, Third Person, Vehicle, etc)_ can also instantiate the **Pause System** and use it.

# How does it work?
As incredible as it may seem, it is incredibly simple! The basement scenes have a variable called **paused** (boolean) that is false by default but can be set to true at any time via code. When a scene is paused, it does not simulate physics or execute the standard **update** methods. Instead, it executes the **pausedUpdate** method.

So all the system does is:
* If the scene is **NOT** paused, it checks (on update) whether the player pressed and **released** the ESC key and if so, pauses the scene and activates the Entity with the Pause Menu. The system also removes the "Relative Mouse" (**events.setRelativeMouse(False)**) to ensure that the mouse is visible.
* If the scene **IS** paused, it checks (on pausedUpdate) whether the player pressed and **released** the ESC key and if so, unpauses the scene and deactivates the Entity with the Pause Menu.

Since the Cave buttons and interfaces **work with the scene paused**, the pause menu works normally and is identical to any other menu.

I recommend that you look at the Main Menu example to explore and better understand how Menus and interfaces work in the Cave.