# About Entity Templates
Imagine that you are creating a Game where there is a type of enemy that you want to **spread several copies of throughout the Scene** or even throughout different phases of the Game...

It would be ideal if you had a standard _"Template"_ for this enemy, so that each instance that you spread throughout your Project referenced this _"Template"_. This way, **whenever you modify the Template**, all of its instances **would be updated with the new changes automatically**, without you having to manually apply such modification one by one.

This _"Template"_ would be useful not only for the enemy I mentioned in the example, but also for boxes, collectibles, items and even the Player itself, so that you can instantiate them in different phases (scenes) of your Game.

<div class="green">
In Cave, this type of "Template" is called an Entity Template!
</div>

The **Entity Template** is a type of **Asset** that you can create in your Asset Browser at any time and edit it by double-clicking on it. Editing it is very similar to editing a normal **Scene**, except that you will not be able to start the game from here and you will also not be able to add entities that are NOT children of the main one (which we call "Root").

You can tell that you are in **"Template Edit"** mode because the 3D View will have a _green outline_ and will probably also have a "Back to Scene" button in its lower right corner. When you click on this button (or open any scene from the Asset Browser) Cave will automatically update ALL entities in your project that use the Template you were editing.

# Instantiating a Template:
To create a new Entity that instantiates a particular **Entity Template**, simply drag and drop the Template from the Asset Browser to your scene.

You will notice that the entity will turn **green** in the "Scene Graph" tab and also when you select it in the 3D View. This is an indicator that it uses a Template. Also note that **you can't edit** an entity like any other entity, since it is always referencing the Template in use. To edit it, you need to edit the Template (and this will apply the changes to all instances).

A cool tip is that if you go to the **Scene Graph** tab and double-click on a green Entity (that uses a Template), Cave will automatically open the editing of that Template for you. Alternatively, you can select the Entity and click on the Edit Template button in the "Properties > Components" tab.

# LOCAL Edits for an Instance:
By default, the only thing you will be able to edit "locally" in each instance of your templates is the **Transform of the Root entity**. This is necessary so that you can obviously position each instance in the world.

But you may also want to make some other modifications, such as if you want to create a Template for your Enemies, but still have control over the amount of **life**, class or specific behavior of each one.

All **Properties** that you add to the **Root Entity** of an **Entity Template** will be public and available for local modification in each instance of the Template that you add. This is the way that Cave offers for you to make such local edits.

The only exception is when you start the name of the property with an underscore (_). In this case, Cave will understand that you want such property to be private, closed only for internal use of the Template and will not display it in the instances.

<div class="red">
NOTE: Please note that only the properties added to the ROOT Entity of the template will be reflected.
</div>