# Creating Tools in Cave
This is a very simple example, but it serves to demonstrate an important functionality of Cave in case you want to create more complex games with the help of external logic, or even create tools to help you with development, procedural generation, etc.

You will see a Python script in this folder and within it the code will be a little different from the conventional one, as you will find a class called **ExampleTab**, which inherits from **cave.ui.DebugTab**.

If, within Cave's Text Editor (double-click on the script in this folder), you go to the top menu called **Editors Tools...**, then **Register DebugTab.*** and finally click on **ExampleTab** (the name of our class), Cave will register this as an interface tab and you will see that a new small window appears within your editor. It will probably be small in the upper left corner of your screen. This small window can be resized, moved and placed together with the other tabs and windows of the Engine.

Inside it, you will see that there is a text, a counter and an example button.

For example purposes, this counter can be modified normally, just like any other Cave interface element, or you can click on the button to increment it by +1. Although simple, this shows you that you can create your own interface elements and customize them in the way that suits you best.

The entire Cave Python API is available to you there, so you can get the current scene (`cave.getScene()`), perform operations with existing entities, add or remove things, etc. The sky is the limit!